# Diversity of Upper Level Education 
## This project explore the racial diversity of upper level educational instutions in the United States, specifically 4-year colleges. Using data from the National Center for Education Statistics, I found data from almost 7,000 institutions from 2010 to 2018. Using the enrollment information of the top three minority groups (Latinx, African American, and Asian populations), I found the linear correlations of several independent variables. These variables were: size of the institution, percent of the university population that are women, admissions rate, and location of the campus. I used these variables to determine what may contribute to racially diverse universities vs. racially uniform universities using linear models. I compiled this information into the app.R file in this repository as a series of graphics and informational text that gives you an idea of what the data represents. 
# Getting Started
## You will need recent versions of R and Rstudio. In addition, at the top of the app.R file, there are several packages required to run the code. In R, you must install the packages using the install.packages function. After doing this preparation, running the app.R should work. Note, you must also download the two .csv files in the repo, as they are required to create the graphics. Please reach out if you have any problems running the files. 
## The gather.rmd and gather.html contain the original data-munging files. They are not required to run the shiny app.
